

Advertising is a form of communication that is sponsored and has a message promoting or selling or trying to sell a product or service or an idea. It is classified as a form

Read More ›



What is Share Of Voice? Explained in detail

August 2, 2018 By Hitesh Bhasin Tagged With: Advertising articles 

share of voice - 4
Every company has a marketing team. This is a group of dedicated as well as expert professionals who tell the company about the best way to make the company earn. Usually, people are

Read More ›



Tri-fold Brochure

July 17, 2018 By Hitesh Bhasin Tagged With: Advertising articles 

Tri-fold Brochure - 3
What is a Tri-fold Brochure? The Tri-fold Brochure is designed using an 8 ½ x 11 sheet of paper folding it twice creating three panels on each side. The reason it is called

Read More ›



Transit Advertising

July 14, 2018 By Hitesh Bhasin Tagged With: Advertising articles 

Transit Advertising - 4
Stuart H. Britt summed up the importance of advertising perfectly when he said “Doing business without advertising is like winking at a girl in the dark. You know what you are doing but

Read More ›



What is Classified advertising?

June 18, 2018 By Hitesh Bhasin Tagged With: Advertising articles 

Classified advertising - 3
Advertising is a tool of marketing that is used to create awareness about a product or service. Since firms often count on advertising for their products and often see it as a quick

Read More ›



Institutional advertising

June 8, 2018 By Hitesh Bhasin Tagged With: Advertising articles 

Institutional advertising - 4
Advertising is the backbone of businesses. If done right, it has the ability to help a business earn millions and this is precisely the reason why businesses across industries keep a substantial chunk

Read More ›



What is Carry Over Effect?

June 5, 2018 By Hitesh Bhasin Tagged With: Advertising articles 

Carry Over Effect - 1
In order to understand carry over effect, it is important to brush up the basic concept of business communication. In the context of business, marketing is an umbrella term that refers to a

Read More ›



DAGMAR Approach – Defining advertising goals for measured advertising results

January 23, 2019 By Hitesh Bhasin Tagged With: Advertising articles 

DAGMAR Marketing
The DAGMAR approach of advertising was devised by Mr Russell Colley who was much appreciated for his work, as till date, DAGMAR is a concept used in advertising to set advertising objectives and

Read More ›



6 Marketing lessons from Priyanka chopra – The girl who went from Andaaz to Baywatch

February 22, 2018 By Hitesh Bhasin Tagged With: Advertising articles 

6 Marketing lessons from Priyanka chopra - 3
If there 
